### fighting spam with haskell 
- it is functional- so it wont crash when multiple function are interacting with each other

- strongly typed - can easily be deployed to production with little or no bugs

[Resource limits
In a latency-sensitive service, you don’t want a single request using a lot of resources and slowing down other requests on the same machine. In this case, the “resources” include everything on the machine that is shared by the running requests — CPU, memory, network bandwidth, and so on.

A request that uses a lot of resources is normally a bug that we want to fix. It does happen from time to time, often as a result of a condition that occurs in production that wasn’t encountered during testing — perhaps an innocuous operation provided with some unexpectedly large input data, or pathological performance of an algorithm on certain rare inputs, for example. When this happens, we want Sigma to terminate the affected request with an error (that will subsequently result in the bug being fixed) and continue without any impact on the performance of other requests being served.

To make this possible, we implemented allocation limits in GHC, which places a bound on the amount of memory a thread can allocate before it is terminated. Terminating a computation safely is a hard problem in general, but Haskell provides a safe way to abort a computation in the form of asynchronous exceptions. Asynchronous exceptions allow us to write most of most of our code ignoring the potential for summary termination and still have all the nice guarantees that we need in the event that the limit is hit, including safe releasing of resources, closing network connections, and so forth.

The following graph illustrates of how well allocation limits work in practice. It tracks the maximum live memory across various groups of machines in the Sigma fleet. When we enabled one request that had some resource-intensive outliers, we saw large spikes in the maximum live memory, which disappeared when we enabled allocation limits.](https://engineering.fb.com/2015/06/26/security/fighting-spam-with-haskell/)


## interesting terms

- asychronous exception
- gbdt - gradient boost decision trees
- Scuba

### scuba
Scuba is a distributed in-memory database built at Facebook. It is a time-series data analysis database aimed towards serving real-time analytical queries approximately. Scuba aims to keep data ingestion latency low and handles huge data inflow by expelling old data from the memory.


    #databases #scuba #gbdt #haskell #asynchronous_exception